.Dd Nov 25, 2005
.Os POSIX
.Dt HIGHLANDER
.Th http_server_configure 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm http_server_configure()
.Nd Read configuration file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <highlander.h>
.Fo "int http_server_configure"
.Fa "http_server s"
.Fa "process p"
.Fa "const char *filename"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads a configuration file and configures the http server 
based on the settings/directives found in that file.
.Fa s 
is the http_server to be configured.
.Pp
.Fa p 
is an optional process object. Set it to NULL if you don't use 
process objects. 
.Nm
will only read configuration parameters for the process object 
if the program runs as the root user, since only the root user
can use the process settings 
.Nm
understands. 
.Pp
.Fa filename
is the name of configuration file we read, optinally including a path.
.Pp
The configuration file can contain any number of settings, 
.Nm
understands the following settings.
.Ss http_server settings
.Fa workers
is an integer larger than 0 specifying the number of worker threads the
server shall use to serve clients. 
.Pp
.Fa queuesize
is an integer larger than 0 specifying the size of the work queue,
ie the number of connected clients which hasn't been allocated
a worker thread.
.Pp
.Fa block_when_full
is an integer flag(0|1) telling us what to do when the work queue
is full. We can either wait for room in the queue or just discard
the connection request.
.Pp
.Fa timeout_read
is an integer specifying how many seconds poll() should wait for
data to arrive on the socket.
.Pp
.Fa timeout_write
is an integer specifying how many seconds poll() should wait 
when checking if it is possible to write to the socket.
.Pp
.Fa retries_read
is an integer specifying how many times we should retry a read()
from the socket.
.Pp
.Fa retries_write
is an integer specifying how many times we should retry a write()
to the socket.
.Pp
.Fa logrotate
is an integer flag(0|1) specifying if we should rotate the access log
or not. 
.Pp
.Fa documentroot
is a path to the root directory for all documents the server will
read from disc.
.Pp
.Fa hostname
is a string containing the name of the host the http_server will
use when it calls bind().
.Pp
.Fa port
is an integer larger than 0 specifying port number to bind to.
.Pp
.Fa logfile
is a path to the log file the server will write log information to.
.Pp
.Ss process settings
.Fa username
is a string specifying the user name the process should run as
after the process has aquired all resources. 
.Pp
.Fa rootdir
is a path to the root directory the process will run in, if set.
The process object will call both chdir() and chroot() to change
into this directory.
.Pp
.Sh RETURN VALUE
.Nm
returns 1 on success and 0 if an error occured.
.Sh EXAMPLE
.Bd -literal
# Sample configuration file for a http_server and a process.
# 
# We use quite a few worker threads since we have lots of CPU's
workers 24
# The work queue is set high to handle bursty traffic
queuesize 512
# Just discard connection requests when queue is full to avoid
# overloading the server.
block_when_full 0
# Some clients have very slow lines, like PDAs and cell phones
# connecting using GPRS or GSM. Help them with high timeout values
# and retry values for reads, but not for writes as it may clog the
# server.
timeout_read 15
retries_read 0
timeout_write 15
retries_write 3
# Never rotate the log
logrotate 0
# Run as this user
username nobody
# chroot to this directory before we start serving requests
rootdir "/srv/www/highlander/"
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr tcp_server 7
.Xr meta_configfile 7
.Sh AUTHOR
.An B. Augestad, bjorn.augestad@gmail.com
