.Dd Nov 25, 2005
.Os POSIX
.Dt HIGHLANDER
.Th http_server_add_page 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm http_server_add_page()
.Nd Add a page to the server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <highlander.h>
.Fo "int http_server_add_page"
.Fa "http_server s"
.Fa "const char *uri"
.Fa "PAGE_FUNCTION pf"
.Fa "page_attribute attr"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
adds a dynamic page to the server. A dynamic page is created
at run time by a C callback function you provide. 
.Pp
The http_server detects a connection request, parses the incoming HTTP
headers, creates a http_request object and a http_response object. Then
the http_server uses the URI for the request to look up which function
it should call to create the actual HTML which will be displayed on
the users screen. 
.Pp
Your job is to create the callback function and register the URI and 
the callback function with the http_server. 
.Pp
.Fa s
is a http_server created by http_server_new()
.Pp
.Fa uri 
is the uri which the function serves. One function can serve multiple
uris, i.e. one function can serve both / and /index.html.  
.Pp
.Fa pf
is a pointer to the function which will be called when the uri is 
requested by a client.
.Pp
.Fa attr
are the page attributes. This argument can be NULL in most cases.
.Sh RETURN VALUE
.Nm
returns 1 if the page was successfully added to the http_server, else 0.
.Sh EXAMPLE
.Bd -literal
/* The page handler function */
int myhandler(http_request req, http_response page)
{
	response_add(page, "Hello, World");
	return 0;
}
\&...
http_server s = http_server_new();
http_server_add_page(s, "/", myhandler, NULL);
http_server_add_page(s, "/hello", myhandler, NULL);
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr highlander_attributes 3
.Sh AUTHOR
.An B. Augestad, bjorn.augestad@gmail.com
