.Dd Nov 25, 2005
.Os POSIX
.Dt HIGHLANDER
.Th http_server_set_queue_size 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm http_server_set_queue_size()
.Nm http_server_get_queue_size()
.Nd Set/get size of work queue
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <highlander.h>
.Fo "void http_server_set_queue_size"
.Fa "http_server s"
.Fa "size_t n"
.Fc
.Fo "size_t http_server_get_queue_size"
.Fa "http_server s"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Highlander uses a thread pool to service incoming connections.
A master thread accepts the connection requests and puts
the new socket in a queue. The worker threads reads entries
from this queue. 
.Pp
When the queue is full, Highlander will either wait for free
space in the queue or start dropping connection requests.
.Pp
This function sets the size of this queue. Default queue size
is 100. Increase or decrease depending on memory constraints
or peak loads. There is minimal memory cost associated with 
a high number, but the server itself may be conceived as failing
if the connection requests are just put in a huge queue without
beeing served by the worker threads. Reasonable values are below
the number of ephemal ports numbers on the server. 
.Pp
Let's say that your server
at times runs very slowly and you have a huge queue. The clients
will then be added to the queue and will later time out since 
they get no response from the server. It may be better to use
a smaller queue and set the server not to block when the queue
is full. That way the client will be notified immediately that
the server could not be connected. 
.Pp
Another issue is Denial of Service attacks (DOS). A malicious 
client can make a connection and then disconnect from the
server after the connection request was added to the queue. 
The disconnect will not be detected until the http_server tries
to read the HTTP header from the socket. If the queue is huge
and the server is slow, that may take some time. In the mean time,
the operating system may become starved for TCP/IP resources.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr		http_server_get_queue_size 3 ,
.Xr		http_server_set_block_when_full 3 ,
.Xr		http_server_set_worker_threads 3
.Sh AUTHOR
.An B. Augestad, bjorn.augestad@gmail.com
